dev/style.md, before:

---
title: Style Guide
layout: markdown
---

# Style Guide for DESI High Website

This document provides a style guide for the DESI High website, including design elements, components, and best practices for creating a consistent user experience.

## Design Elements

### Layouts
- Use the `default` layout for all pages.
- If using Markdown, use the `markdown` layout (inherits from `default` but places the content in containers to avoid full-width pages).

### Colors
- Primary color : Bulma warning yellow

## Ideas
- "You've got mail !": A notification that shows up on the home page with a link to Saul's letter.
- Use tags for complexity in notebooks ([link](https://bulma.io/documentation/elements/tag/))
- Use Modals for FAQ ([link](https://bulma.io/documentation/components/modal/))
- Load Members from yaml file ?
- Add carrousels from collections for events & news + create blog page
- Contact form : see [form subscription tools](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24348223/send-email-from-static-page-hosted-on-github-pages)
  - [x] Create form style
  - [x] Add notification message for forum link
  - [ ] Javascript part to be implemented to have field checking, warning messages, and a success message after submission.
  - [ ] Which email to send the form to ?
  - [ ] Confirmation message to be displayed after successful form submission.
  - [ ] Add backend form processing to handle form submissions and send emails.
- Fancy stuff:
  - Search bar
  - Dark mode toggle (not optimal)


# Style guide for DESI High Notebooks

See the [trac documentation](https://desi.lbl.gov/trac/wiki/DesiHigh/StyleGuide) for now

Commit message:

Add breadcrumb navigation include to style guide

dev/style.md, after:

---
title: Style Guide
layout: markdown
---

{% include breadcrumbs.html breadcrumbs=true is_md=true %}

# Style Guide for DESI High Website

This document provides a style guide for the DESI High website, including design elements, components, and best practices for creating a consistent user experience.

## Design Elements

### Layouts
- Use the `default` layout for all pages.
- If using Markdown, use the `markdown` layout (inherits from `default` but places the content in containers to avoid full-width pages).

### Includes
- Use the `navbar` include for the navigation bar.
- Use the `footer` include for the footer.
- Use the `back` include for breadcrumb navigation.
  - Options are `breadcrumb=true` to show the breadcrumb, or `home=true` to show a link to the home page and `back=true` to show a button to go back to the previous page.

### Colors
- Primary color : Bulma warning yellow

## Ideas
- "You've got mail !": A notification that shows up on the home page with a link to Saul's letter.
  - Link to fix
- Use [panels](https://bulma.io/documentation/components/panel/) for curriculum sections & notebooks
  - Left side icons : Book for notebooks, wrench for cheatsheets, etc.
  - Use tags for complexity in notebooks ([link](https://bulma.io/documentation/elements/tag/)) on the right side ?
- Add carrousels (w/ [cards](https://bulma.io/documentation/components/card/)) from collections for events & news + create blog page
- Contact form : see [form subscription tools](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/24348223/send-email-from-static-page-hosted-on-github-pages)
  - [x] Create form style
  - [x] Add notification message for forum link
  - [ ] Javascript part to be implemented to have field checking, warning messages, and a success message after submission.
  - [ ] Which email to send the form to ?
  - [ ] Confirmation message to be displayed after successful form submission.
  - [ ] Add backend form processing to handle form submissions and send emails.
- Fancy stuff:
  - Move hardcoded links to a config file (forum, ?)
  - Search bar
  - Dark mode toggle (not optimal)


# Style guide for DESI High Notebooks

See the [trac documentation](https://desi.lbl.gov/trac/wiki/DesiHigh/StyleGuide) for now
